---
title: "Travel Review - Naval Nuclear Power Training Command"
date: 2022-11-21T14:53:06-05:00
draft: true
---
When you enter into the military, there’s a film of despair over the whole process. The military is often the last resort, as it certainly was for me, and that feeling, the feeling of being on your last leg, that feeling permeates. 

The recruiting station for the section of Atlanta covering Georgia Tech was inside South Dekalb Mall on Candler Rd. It’s in not the worst neighborhood in Atlanta, but it’s not good. There’s a lot of Chinese fried rice - fried wings - fried fish combo places and a lot more dilapidated former places. Places I’d had never seen be anything and, as far as I know, never became anything. South Dekalb Mall itself was only slightly more depressing than it’s sister/rival in despair North Dekalb Mall, which had a Marshalls, Ross, Burlington, Wendy’s, and an AMC theaters that had 5 dollar tickets and would probably let you bring in an entire thanksgiving feast into the theater in broad daylight if you wanted. South Dekalb Mall had a DMV and a Macy’s which was on its very last leg for a long time and - I looked it up - closed a couple years ago. So now it has nothing. 

The home I lived in until 12 was right down the street from the mall. It was in Renaissance Lakes, which was clearly supposed to be only the beginning of some property developer’s - as of now still unrealized - dream of redevelopment of the area. The streets were named after renaissance artists. I lived on Da Vinci Crescent. My parents moved there in a stage of not-quite-upwardly-mobile-yet-ness. Some features:

* Rows of one or two story houses in urgent need of a power wash, arranged on infinite, winding streets which suddenly branch off into several others or abruptly end in a cul de sac with equal likelihood.
* The antagonistic, mosquito filled, eponymous lake which I only glimpsed once or twice. 
* A “clubhouse” completely infested with hornets.
* A swimming pool that never opened after 2007, and 
* A tennis court, pavement severely cracked as if an earthquake had gone through. (My mother went through a competitive tennis phase for a year or so, and this was occasionally the site of her getting absolutely crushed by some other woman.)

I say all that to say that when I found, sitting in my room in my frat house at Georgia Tech, that my Navy recruiting station was in South Dekalb Mall, I knew where it was and how to get there.

After you fill out some forms, the recruiters set a date to take you to a MEPS (Military Entrance Processing Station) facility for your initial processing. You go once and then you go again one last time to ship out for boot camp. It’s a small, dingy building. They take your height, weight, do blood tests. You fill out more forms, you take an aptitude exam, and an elderly doctor gets very intimate with you. A lot of lines, a lot of sitting. You are an object. You are being processed. Like a manufactured good, like cheese.

My point is that this can all feel very embarrassing and bleak, especially for someone who was in college. I never imagined being at that point, in that situation. The process of joining the military is the process of being brought low. And, I’d argue, putting on rank and becoming qualified in your job is the process of getting your dignity back and acquiring the respect you feel you lack. So I went from a top engineering school to being in the exact same spot as and completely identical to some guy who barely passed high school and is 20something and already has a child support payment. Most of the people in my A school and Nuclear Power School class also did a year or two of college, couldn’t afford it or couldn’t hack it, and then dropped out and joined the military. It’s really, really common story. So I know for sure that they had this exact same feeling too. I think a lot of what happens at NNPTC is a reaction to that feeling. But more on that later. 

It’s at this crucial point, after you take the aptitude test at MEPS and do very well, when you’re told that you’re special and you ought to go into the Nuclear Field. It’s only for the people who score the highest on the ASVAB, only for the cream of the crop. Everyone else, they’re cooks, they’re infantry, they’re undesignated seamen who will paint the side of the ship, but you will have a job which aligns with your superior mental abilities, which offers faster promotions to higher ranks (more dignity!), which pays a little extra, which has officer program opportunities, and which comes with the largest sign on bonus. Mine was something like 30K for completing the entire training pipeline (which I did not do and thus did not get, because of the officer program)

Then you go to boot camp, the purpose of which is to bring you low, and you get kind of the same feeling again of why I am I in the same place as these dimwits and why I am folding clothes all day and making sure there are no wrinkles in my blanket because of some bullshit about points and demerits. 

So that’s the context in which I, and many of my classmates, arrived at NNPTC. There’s a desire to do well in training, to build yourself up as a human being, to accomplish something after being brought so low. So you begin training, which recruiters and various others warn you is difficult and fast-paced and that many people fail, and you think “I’m different. I can prove I have what it takes.” 

NNPTC is less regimented than boot camp, but they do place some restrictions on you for the first few weeks so that you can adjust. Then, for Electronics Technicians, you’re there for 6 months of A-School and 6 months of Power School. 

The classrooms, all of which are located in the Hyman G. Rickover Building, are on the smaller side, with long, easily-stained white plastic tables and uncomfortable, stackable chairs arranged in 2 columns, enough to fit around 20ish students. There’s a carpeted stage at the front of each classroom underneath the whiteboard and the projector screen, about 2 feet wide and 2 feet tall, but stretching the entire length of the front wall. The rest of the walls are lined with brown or grey metal lockers containing each student’s books and notes, each which must be verified by initials to be locked by two separate people whenever the room is empty. A bit of theatre to train you about security. The room might have a window or two, but the blinds usually cover them. This is the room you are in from 0700 to 1600. All after-hours studying takes place in this room as well. No materials can leave the building. 

There’s a new A-school class of students every 2 weeks or so, numbered according to the fiscal year and week. You’re with these people for the entire 6 months. You can walk around your floor of the Rickover building and peer into other classes of Electronics Technicians a few months ahead of you or a couple months behind you. There’s a new power school class every few months, a big one composed of 12 sections of 30 students. Your section is usually your A-school class, so it’s another 6 months with the same people. You get to know these people very, very well. 

Despite being a classroom environment, A-school and Power School differ from college or high school in important ways. For one, there are a lot of exams. About 20 or so in A-school and upwards of 40 in power school. These are not quizzes; they’re real-deal exams, up to 3 hours long. The comprehensive exam - “comp” for short - at the end of each school is even longer. This may give you an idea of the speed at which knowledge must be learned.

The content of these exams is based on the student notes - simply, “the Notes” - for each subject. The textbooks they lend you in A-school and Power School remained completely untouched in my locker because the Notes were the only thing that mattered. The Notes are mountains of dense pages of words and diagrams. They are encyclopedic. You fill up a 4 inch binder of hole-punched, sacred text every 4 to 6 weeks, or faster. It is an unfathomable amount of information.

The Notes are sacred because they are an exact answer key for the exam. The text of the exam solutions (which is read out loud once and only once after the exam so that students can submit requests for a regrade) is simply the corresponding text in the Notes that the question references. Although some instructors claim that if you simply understand the Notes and write down what you know for each question you’ll get it correct, any deviation from the text in the notes does in practice result in a deduction of points. Memorization and regurgitation is the only way to perfection. “Word perfect” is the guiding term.

But why perfection? Do these “points” even matter? Isn’t it enough to simply _pass_ training? Well, besides the desire to excel in order to reclaim dignity we’ve mentioned earlier, there are some pretty good reasons you’ll want to try to avoid “just passing.”

Each exam is scored out of a 4.00 and so is your overall average. A 2.50 is required to pass A-school and Power School, but I’d say if you have anything below a 3.2, your existence is a hell. You’re probably on required study hours, the most punitive of which are 25-4s (pretty common for people near a 2.50, means you need 25 extra hours on the week on top of being in the classroom 0700-1600 M-F, with at least 4 extra hours per school day) and 30-5s (less common, somehow exponentially worse, usually a disciplinary measure). These extra hours can be a burden on sanity. There’s only so much “studying” you can do before you end up staring at a wall in the classroom just to pass the time. I’ve seen people become shells. I’m smelled people stop showering. The required hours often have the effect of reducing performance. So you see people every day trapped in a cycle of decline. On the other hand, if you had over a 3.6 or os, you had no such required hours and sometimes even had optional homework. In this way, your GPA structures your day to day life.

Now I can mention a part of the classroom I neglected earlier, the object of everyone’s constant attention, a sheet of paper in a binder sleeve tacked up to a cork-board in on back wall of the classroom. Everyone feigns attention to the instructor in the front of the classroom, but if you look closely, their heads are always ever so slightly turning to look at the all-important white sheet of paper behind them: a list of everyone in the class’ exam scores and averages, ordered from first to last. Every classroom has one just like it. In Power School, it also includes your rank in the entire 12-section class in addition to your rank within the section. 

So you see, because grades were vitally, materially important if you wanted to have any sort of quality of life and because of mostly everyone failed out of college and thus felt they had something to prove and because grades were right there in the open for everyone to see and because the amount and pace of information were so extraordinary it could drive you insane, when I began to repeatedly get perfect 4 dot 0 exam scores, many of them in a row, in A-school and in Power School, on harder and harder exams, it attracted significant attention. It became a spectacle. I was subject to, as a result, an alternating current of envy, hatred, respect, and total, unadorned adoration. 

It’s rare to 4.0 an exam because of the precision required to avoid any point deductions and the encyclopedic knowledge required to be prepared for every question. Since every exam has some review, you have to hold a punishing amount of text, circuit drawings and operations, steam plant schematics, valve names, safety procedures, thermodynamic equations, and much much more always lying dormant, indexed and filed away in your head for quick retrieval. My final GPA, a 3.97, meant I missed about 50 or 60 exam points in total out of 8000.

Everyone in every classroom knew who I was. They thought about me. They talked about me. Hundreds of people, watching me. After every exam, people I didn’t know would ask me or ask my classmates what I got. In the social media world, hundreds of thousands of people can interact with one of your posts, more people that you can ever fathom, but I have to say that the blunt force of the emotions of hundreds of real life people can go toe to toe with internet virality any day. Instructors would brag about catching me when I slipped up and being able to take off a point or two on my exam. They would brag to me, to other classrooms, to anyone. It became a kind of game. (One time, in A-School’s Instrumentation and Control Equipment, an instructor was absolutely gleeful when he announced during the classroom’s post-exam review that he was able to take off a quarter of a point from my final exam in the subject.) 

When you have a perfect exam, your classroom door gets a 3 or 4 inch square wooden magnet, with “4.0” written on it in a dull gold color. My Power School classroom had 14 of them on the door, I think, by the end, 12 of which were because of me, way more than anyone else had ever. The plaques were an attraction; people would pass by our first floor classroom and stop and stare. My classmates were probably more proud of them than I was; it gave the whole section some status. The magnets were always arranged in a new pattern every week, a giant pyramid, giant square, a zigzag, eventually my classmates made a fish out of them. The plaques were ostentatious and in your face. For someone walking by them at night after their mandatory study hours, trying to stay above a 2.5, the magnets probably were a big, giant “fuck you.”

Some people hated me and thought I was stuck up. I never hung out with anyone, so that was probably a reasonable impression. But the most common attitude, especially for those who hide higher GPAs and probably would have had a chance of being at the top if I wasn’t there, was, a little counterintuitively, one of worship. I mean real worship. It’s like they sublimated their envy into the desire for my approval or something. You would think that all these ambitious, smart people would hate me for blocking their path to the top, that they would be furious at having their post-college-drop-out chance at redemption blocked by some guy with freakish powers of memorization. But no, instead they mostly seemed to view me as some supernatural force, which would, of course, release them from having to compete with me. Never in my life have people looked up to me like that.

 I hope it never happens again. I can’t relate to people who are power-hungry and want to be famous and well-liked by everyone because I’ve had a glimpse of what it’s like and it’s not fucking fun. There isn’t any great pleasure in being seen as perfect. There’s no upside. There was nothing in it that I wanted. The only way I could think of to react to all this was with a humble disinterestedness. I tried to create an air of nonchalance. In practice, it just meant I was standoff-ish

Maybe I’m projecting when I wonder why the high achievers didn’t all give me the evil eye. Maybe that’s because it’s what I would do. I could say that I only had high goals for myself because I wanted to get into the officer program so I could go back to college. I could say I only sought high grades for the specific purpose of making my application look good. But that wouldn’t be true. I could have gotten into the officer program off of my SAT scores and previous college performance alone. Even though I didn’t fail out of college, I really set out to break records because I was embarrassed to be at NNPTC. I was the one who had something to prove. I felt I had to show I was better than everyone so I could know I didn’t deserve to have to be there. And I paid the price for it; I got so much attention it made me feel sick. I had to be perfect all the time because hundreds of people were looking out for each of my individual exam grades. I got trapped in a never ending cycle.

I think I accidentally signed a deal that said, in fine print somewhere, “You will get what you want, and it will be shitty every time.” If anyone knows a contracts lawyer, please send them my way.
